# Weight-Tracking-Application

  The requirements for this application were to create a tool to help users who are trying to gain and or lose weight. This application was supposed to use a database to store user credentials, users weights, and goal weights. The user was supposed to be able to create an account, enter their daily weight, enter their goal weight, and send the user a notification if they met that goal weight and had notifications turned on. This app was designed to help users that desired to lose and or gain weight. Some features that were necessary to produce a user centered user interface were letting users edit and or delete their entered weights, and some screens that helped with this was the home screen, as it showcased essential information so that the user could understand the application's functionality and use it accordingly. The user interface kept users in mind and were successful, as it used a consistent font and color pallet in order to not distract the users front the core information, and a consistent font to highlight core information in a potentially non-distracting way. The process for creating this application was to read and understand the requirements, once that was completed, a basic frontend was set up, then the backend was developed, and the project was reviewed and tested. 
  
  A strategy that I used for this project was to break the requirements down step by step. This can be applied to future projects, as breaking requirements down can be important to understanding what should be developed and how. I tested the application by going through the requirements and trying to make sure that all core functionalities were working as expected, pressing buttons, and entering data, this is important because a non-tested application could cause unexpected results. Testing revealed that there were some components that did not seem to work as expected, resulting in a revision and a potentially more polished product. One way that I innovated to overcome a challenge, was by putting more components on the home page, as originally, I was going to split up some of the functionalities, but this resulted in a lot more blank space on each page, and added complexity that might not have been required. One specific component from this application that I was particularly successful in demonstrating my skills was the notification's functionality. This part of the application required editing the manifest file, as well as many other areas of the application, creating a function to ask the user if they wanted to enable notifications, and creating logic to display a notification if the user met their goal weight.
